VOTABLE version 1.0
====================

The VOTABLE package is a set of Perl modules which provide an
object-oriented interface to VOTABLE-formatted XML files. The software
is built atop the Perl XML::LibXML module, which is a Perl interface
to the C-based libxml2 XML parser.

The VOTABLE software provides a class for each valid element defined
in the VOTABLE DTD. Documentation for each class is available in the
manual pages generated when the software is built. The documentation
can also be read in the "pod" headers in each source file.

The programs in the 'examples' subdirectory illustrate the use of the
modules to read a VOTABLE document and access its parts, and the
construction of a VOTABLE document from scratch, and printing it out.

OUTLINE

Each VOTABLE element has a class for it. All of the element classes
inherit from the VOTable::Element class, which itself inherits from
the XML::LibXML::Element class. Therefore, if you need functionality
that is not provided by the VOTable methods, you can probably get the
needed functionality by calling the XML::LibXML::Element methods. See
the XML::LibXML::Element manual pages for details. In a similar vein,
the VOTable::Document class inherits from XML::LibXML::Document.

Each element class provides get, set, remove, and append accessors for
each child element, and get, set, and remove accessors for each
attribute. The code throws an exception if you use an invalid child
element or invalid attribute.

The set and append methods for child elements all take list
arguments. For elements with individual child elements, the list
should contain a single element; the code does NOT enforce this
restriction at this point, so be careful.

The get methods for child elements all return lists, even when only
one element is expected. Therefore, the get accessor results should be
indexed to get the desired element.

All get, set, append, and remove methods are implemented by the
AUTOLOAD method in Element.pm, greatly decreasing the amount of code
needed to support new elements.

INSTALLATION

To install this module type the following:

   perl Makefile.PL
   make
   make test
   make install

DEPENDENCIES

This module requires these other modules and libraries:

Perl 5.6.1 or later, with complete standard module suite
XML::LibXML 1.53 or later
libxml2 2.5.4 or later

All Perl items are freely available from CPAN (the Comprehensive Perl
Archive Network, http://www.cpan.org). Your installation may require
other modules to support the above, but the list above should be OK
for a standard Perl installation. You may encounter error messages
when building the modules which indicate missing dependent libraries
or modules. If you do, drop me a line and I will help you track them
down and install them.

The libxml2 library is a C library for parsing XML. It is available as
a free download from http://www.xmlsoft.org.

CAVEATS

This code has not been tested with versions of Perl earlier than
5.6.1, nor has it been tested _recently_ with Perl 5.8 (although it
worked last time I tried it).

CONTACT

All questions and bug reports should be sent to:

Eric Winter
SSAI/NASA GSFC Laboratory for High-Energy Astrophysics
Eric.L.Winter.1@gsfc.nasa.gov

See the Changes file for a list of changes since the previous release.

COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (C) 2002 Laboratory for High-Energy Astrophysics, NASA GSFC

This software may be freely distributed under the same terms as Perl
itself.
